# 10/30/24

## 973. K Closest Points to Origin
- [Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/k-closest-points-to-origin/)

### Question
- Given an array of points where points[i] = [xi, yi] represents a point on the X-Y plane and an integer k, return the k closest points to the origin (0, 0).
- the distance between two points on the X-Y plane is the Euclidean distance (i.e., √(x1 - x2)² + (y1 - y2)²).
- You may return the answer in any order. The answer is guaranteed to be unique (except for the order that it is in).

### approaches with explanations
- brute force
  - calculate the distance of each point from the origin and store it in a dictionary
  - sort the dictionary by the distance and return the first k elements
  - time complexity: O(nlogn)
  - space complexity: O(n)

- using heap
  - we need to use a max heap to store the distances however because we want to find the min distance we will store them as negative numbers 
    - this will ensure that the smaller negative will be the top element in the heap
  - as we iterate we calculate the distance and push it into the heap
    - if the heap size is greater than k we pop the top element
    - this will ensure that the heap will always have the k smallest distances
  - time complexity: O(nlogk)
  - space complexity: O(k)
### Solution

```python
# for a real quick solution
# essentially sorts the distances and returns the last k elements
# O(nlogk) time complexity
# O(k) space complexity
return sorted(points, key=lambda x: x[0]**2 + x[1]**2)[:k]


# for a more optimized solution
# heap approach
heap = []
for x,y in points:
    distance = -((x**2 + y**2)**0.5)
    if len(heap):
        heappush(heap, (distance, [x,y]))
    else:
        heappushpop(heap, (distance, [x,y]))
return [point for distance, point in heap]
        
```
## 10. balanced binary tree
- [Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/balanced-binary-tree/)

### Question
- Given a binary tree, determine if it is height-balanced.

### approaches with explanations
- for this problem we will be implementing a recursive function that will check if the tree is balanced
  - the helper function will check the the height of the left and right subtrees
  - if the difference between the two is greater than 1 we will return -1
  - if the difference is less than 1 we will return the height of the tree
- time complexity: O(n)
- space complexity: O(n)

### Solution


## 141. Linked List Cycle
- [Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/linked-list-cycle/)

### Question
- Given head, the head of a linked list, determine if the linked list has a cycle in it.
- There is a cycle in a linked list if there is some node in the list that can be reached again by continuously following the next pointer. Internally, pos is used to denote the index of the node that tail's next pointer is connected to. Note that pos is not passed as a parameter.
- Return true if there is a cycle in the linked list. Otherwise, return false.

### approaches with explanations

## 233. implement a Queue using stacks
- [Link] (https://leetcode.com/problems/implement-queue-using-stacks/)

### Question
- Implement a first in first out (FIFO) queue using only two stacks. The implemented queue should support all the functions of a normal queue (push, peek, pop, and empty).
- Implement the MyQueue class:
  - void push(int x) Pushes element x to the back of the queue.
  - int pop() Removes the element from the front of the queue and returns it.
  - int peek() Returns the element at the front of the queue.
  - boolean empty() Returns true if the queue is empty, false otherwise.
- Notes:
    - You must use only standard operations of a stack, which means only push to top, peek/pop from top, size, and is empty operations are valid.
    - Depending on your language, the stack may not be supported natively. You may simulate a stack using a list or deque (double-ended queue) as long as you use only a stack's standard operations.
    - Follow-up: Can you implement the queue such that each operation is amortized O(1) time complexity? In other words, performing n operations will take overall O(n) time even if one of those operations may take longer.
